Sensitivity of data concerns any development language, including Java. You need to know how to handle sensitive data as adjust your code so you don't create more risks just by handeling it. Common examples are always related to logs. Its easier to solve problems when you log as much as possible. However, if you log sensitive data you are now exposing that data to exploit because it is now stored somewhere different than the originally intended source. For instance, if you collect SSNs as part of an online application so you can do some kind of verification, you would want to make sure that you are not capturing the SSN in your logs and using a mask to cover it up BEFORE it is put into a log.

Other types of sensitive data can seem innocuous at first, but can be used to exploit your application. Stack traces contain very detailed information about your application and those traces should never be shared outside of a need to know basis, and then destroyed when they are no longer needed. Other logging can show file paths in clear text that can be used, or any other kind of verbose logging, can expose unintended information.

Always have a data retention policy. In many cases this is a requirement of the client. Its always important to remember that developers (and IT for that matter) do not own the data. The business or the business's customer owns the data. You are a steward of that data and need to protect it. This includes deleting it when the customer and/or business says to delete it. Organizations like banks almost always have 7 to 10 year retention on data related to customers, at a minimum. But sometimes you get requirements for longer or shorter, almost always driven by your legal team after they have evaluated the contract and the business requirements. Legal Hold is a very common practice in any industry and you have to be able to accomodate such requests if you develop applications that deal with health or financial data. Many times you get strict data retention policies when you work with personal data, as the longer you hold personal data, the more liable you are for that data, so you don't want to retain it any longer than you need.

This is why websites will use other providers for their login management, like using Google to login and establish identity. that pushes the responsibility of storing that auth data to the third party provider. You still have to protect that information, especially any of the auth tokens you use to support session management in your applications.

Of course, all of this comes at a cost. The time needed to support more complex application development, the CPU power needed to process those more complex apps, the memory needed for those instances to run your app, or the cloud (or local) storage to meet data retention requirements; all have to be accounted for when building an application that is consumed by users. It is safe to assume that if you process sensitive data, your application will be more expensive, in one way or another.

Below is an example of some Java snippets that show a good way and bad to handle sensitive data. basically one just suffs the sensitive data into logs, the other sanitizes it. I do not include an MAIN in the code snippet, these posts are getting long as it is.
